README.md, before:

# dr-sasa - Solvent Accessible Surface Area calculation software for biological molecules

dr-sasa is a solvent accessible surface area calculation software for biological molecules, that supports proteins, dna and rna inputs. The input files can be in the PDB or MOL2 format. PDB format files will use a NACCESS compatible VdW radii lookup table, while MOL2 formats will use the same VdW radii used in Chimera.

## Operation Modes

There are five operation modes. The first does common ASA calculations, the second calculates the BSA between various chains or molecular objects, and third and fourth calculate BSA between residues and atoms as if they were independent objects.  
The fifth mode does not use the SASA or BSA for its calculations. It simply calculates the raw contact surfaces between chains or molecular objects.

## Usage

 -Simple SASA solver: (mode 0, default)  
Calculates SASA and outputs a NACCESS PDB like file and a second file with categorized atoms.
Outputs just add a .asa and .atmasa to the input filename if not defined by the user.
The .asa file has the SASA values in the B-factor column, and a internal atom typing in the charge column reserved for future use.  
EXAMPLE:
###
```
  ./dr_sasa -m 0 -i 4ins.pdb -o 4ins.asa
```
 -Delta SASA by chain ID or automatic: (mode 1)  
Calculates the delta SASA in various objects contained in a single pdb or mol2 file.
Objects are currently defined only by their chains.
Outputs an interaction table, all surface overlaps, and a dSASA matrix for each
permutation of defined objects.
If no chains are selected the interactions will be defined by molecular type.  
EXAMPLE:
###
```
  ./dr_sasa -m 1 -i 4ins.pdb -chain AB -chain CD

  ./dr_sasa -m 1 -i 1bl0.pdb
```
 -Aminoacid dSASA mode: (mode 2)  
Calculates the delta SASA of all aminoacids inside a single object. (intramolecular contacts)
Outpus an interaction table and overlap table.  
EXAMPLE:
###
```
  ./dr_sasa -m 2 -i 4ins.pdb -chain ABCD
```
 -Atom dSASA mode: (mode 3)  
Calculates the delta SASA of all atoms inside a single object. (intramolecular contacts)
Outpus an interaction table and overlap table.  
EXAMPLE:
###
```
  ./dr_sasa -m 3 -i 4ins.pdb -chain ABCD
```
 -Atom contact surface mode: (mode -1)  
Calculates the contact surface between all the chains of a defined object, or if no chains are defined, between different molecular types.
Outpus interaction tables.  
EXAMPLE:
###
```
  ./dr_sasa -m -1 -i 1bl0.pdb
```
 -Switches  

-nomatrix switch will disable matrix output.

-r float  switch will set the water probe radius in Angstroms. Default value is 1.4. Setting to 0 is equal to using the molecular surface.

-v  Allows the user to define their own VdW radii for PDBs or MOL2 files. Examples are distributed under the utils folder.


## Compiling
After cloning the source, enter the directory and create a build directory:

###
```
cd $(drsasa_dir)
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ../
make
```

Then copy the binary to your local or system binaries folder.

Commit message:

Added switch to disable atmasa autosort.

README.md, after:

#dr-sasa - Solvent Accessible Surface Area calculation software for biological molecules

dr-sasa is a solvent accessible surface area calculation software for biological molecules, that supports proteins, dna and rna inputs. The input files can be in the PDB or MOL2 format. PDB format files will use a NACCESS compatible VdW radii lookup table, while MOL2 formats will use the same VdW radii used in Chimera.

## Operation Modes

There are five operation modes. The first does common ASA calculations, the second calculates the BSA between various chains or molecular objects, and third and fourth calculate BSA between residues and atoms as if they were independent objects.  
The fifth mode does not use the SASA or BSA for its calculations. It simply calculates the raw contact surfaces between chains or molecular objects.

## Usage

 -Simple SASA solver: (mode 0, default)  
Calculates SASA and outputs a NACCESS PDB like file and a second file with categorized atoms.
Outputs just add a .asa and .atmasa to the input filename if not defined by the user.
The .asa file has the SASA values in the B-factor column, and a internal atom typing in the charge column reserved for future use.  
EXAMPLE:
###
```
  ./dr_sasa -m 0 -i 4ins.pdb -o 4ins.asa
```
 -Delta SASA by chain ID or automatic: (mode 1)  
Calculates the delta SASA in various objects contained in a single pdb or mol2 file.
Objects are currently defined only by their chains.
Outputs an interaction table, all surface overlaps, and a dSASA matrix for each
permutation of defined objects.
If no chains are selected the interactions will be defined by molecular type.  
EXAMPLE:
###
```
  ./dr_sasa -m 1 -i 4ins.pdb -chain AB -chain CD

  ./dr_sasa -m 1 -i 1bl0.pdb
```
 -Aminoacid dSASA mode: (mode 2)  
Calculates the delta SASA of all aminoacids inside a single object. (intramolecular contacts)
Outpus an interaction table and overlap table.  
EXAMPLE:
###
```
  ./dr_sasa -m 2 -i 4ins.pdb -chain ABCD
```
 -Atom dSASA mode: (mode 3)  
Calculates the delta SASA of all atoms inside a single object. (intramolecular contacts)
Outpus an interaction table and overlap table.  
EXAMPLE:
###
```
  ./dr_sasa -m 3 -i 4ins.pdb -chain ABCD
```
 -Atom contact surface mode: (mode -1)  
Calculates the contact surface between all the chains of a defined object, or if no chains are defined, between different molecular types.
Outpus interaction tables.  
EXAMPLE:
###
```
  ./dr_sasa -m 4 -i 1bl0.pdb
```
 -Switches  

-nomatrix switch will disable matrix output.

-r float  switch will set the water probe radius in Angstroms. Default value is 1.4. Setting to 0 is equal to using the molecular surface.

-v  Allows the user to define their own VdW radii for PDBs or MOL2 files. Examples are distributed under the utils folder, as vdw.radii and vdiw.radii.mol2.

-no_atmasa_autosort Special setting for atmasa output files. Disables the autosorter, useful for malformed mol2 or pdbs with atoms with missing chain identifers.
## Compiling
After cloning the source, enter the directory and create a build directory:

###
```
cd $(drsasa_dir)
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ../
make
```

Then copy the binary to your local or system binaries folder.
